# Employee Attrition

Employee Attrition Analysis &amp; Prediction

# Background

This project is focused on understanding why employees leave an organization.  The cost of employee attrition is multi-faceted and can have a far reaching impact on the organization: 

* **Reallocation Costs**: To fill the resource gap, management needs to shift the workload of the old employee onto other employees, which could reduce their productivity and job satisfaction.
* **Revenue Loss**: If the workload cannot be shifted to other employees, then the revenue generated by that employee could be lost.
* **Replacement Costs**: Management needs to spend time and money to hire, onboard and train a replacement.  
* **Performance Costs**: Managers and teams spend more time on maintenance goals instead of growth goals, which could impact the financial performance of the department.

# Project Goal

Before leaders can take specific steps to reduce attrition within their organizations, they need to determine the root causes and answer the question, why do emloyees leave?

Leaders also need to operationalize their findings to predict which employees are most likely to leave in the future

# Data

I will use an example set extension of a dataset released by IBM to analyze employee attrition.  The files were prepared by Vijay Choudhary and Aman Kumar and can be accessed at <a href="https://www.kaggle.com/vjchoudhary7/hr-analytics-case-study" target="_blank">***kaggle.com***</a>  The data comes in 5 different files from a relational database with a total of 52 features for 4,400 employees.
1. **General**: A record of general employee information.
2. **Employee Survey**: Responses to a job satisfaction survey.
3. **Manager Survey**: Manager responses to an employee performance survey.
4. **Time Clock In**: A record of time clock in data.
5. **Time Clock Out**: A record of time clock out data.

# Specific Case

The findings of an employee attrition analysis will obviously be different for each organization.  For this specific case, I will be looking at an Indian pharmaceuticals company, with approximately 4,400 employees, struggling with an annual employee attrition of 15%.  Management has hired <a href="http://www.bigday.ai" target="_blank">***Big Day***</a> to conduct an analysis of their employee data to determine the root causes of this attrition so they can develop a clear strategy for retaining employees.  I will also develop a classification algorithm to predict the future likelihood of an employee to leave or stay.

# EDA

  *   Is there one or more departments where the attrition is higher?
  *   Does educational background have an impact, where some employees have greater professional opportunity than others?
  *   Does the average number of hours an employee work each day impact their desire to leave?
